Electromagnetic fields apply a force on charged particles. Different configurations of fields will apply different forces, resulting in a wide variety of individual particle dynamics. In certain configurations of fields, it is possible to derive a full analytical solution for the motion of a charged particle. This project will derive the full analytical solution for the position of a charged particle in two configurations of electromagnetic fields; a constant magnetic field and a combination of a constant electric field and a constant magnetic field. Furthermore, a perturbation solution was derived for an inhomogeneous magnetic field where the inhomogeneity is small. However, more often than not, these solutions are not possible to derive. Therefore numerical methods must be considered to derive the trajectory of a charged particle in an electromagnetic field. Hence, two numerical solvers were developed specifically, using normalised values, to model these trajectories. These were tested extensively against analytical solutions and each time they achieved the expected rate of convergence. These methods were used to find the trajectories of charged particles in various configurations of electromagnetic fields. Where possible, an error analysis was conducted against the analytical or perturbation solution. The numerical methods developed are capable of modelling trajectories in far more complex fields than have been considered in this project, therefore these more complex fields will be a focus of my future work in this area. Overall, this project aims to accurately model the individual dynamics of charged particles in electromagnetic fields.
